I was talking to you at a while ago about the giant spider promo
the aftertaste that will have to walk in the room we will talk
now to my conleau friends this is a robot the surgeon called is
used for four years in fifteen breeds to watch in front of
self I think by the armp
gold at the end the surgeon
no one does indeed have the operating room man no I reassure you one does not
noted a cardboard on asia he is replaced the man by the machine
in fact it is a robot that is remotely controlled by the surgeon he is
especially used in reconstructive surgery to access
difficult areas
as for the removal of the prostate nasser attended at 7 o'clock
intervention with a cream attention some pictures may shock
this robotic octopus priced by waiting for its tentacles
he must undergo a removal of the prostate
the head thinks of the octopus and if that surgeon who commands the arms of the
robot with tourists were leaving the extension of my arm because
technically if I had to go to 11 places where I currently live thanks
to the robot
I would have a lot of difficulties
I can make much finer gestures much more precise and
mostly filtered even though I saw a lot of coffee and I tremble the
rebound
these first movements and allow me to make a gesture perfectly
stable
3d vision
the dump is open a few small incisions are enough
that's where the opera traore introduces a camera and spend a
half a meter
this precision helps preserve the function the rice nerica victims of the
patient
not to reopen the abdominal wall
we recover faster to less parietal pain
there is less bleeding heller the robot near but can make some
gestures
without traumatizing adjacent organs
so it will be queen to healing
in four years the surgeons at the clinic have achieved nearly 650
interventions with the robot
mostly used in urology at the beginning it applies today to others
specialties
now for
our friends our mistakes
the use of the word politics
and when brain
of the pharynx
Joan of Arc and the
for some cancers
cervix
but some endometrial cancers
he found the name of this technology if its cost is estimated at 1 million
700 thousand euros
despite this investment, it is difficult to profitably quarantine
of establishments are equipped in France the robotic octopus deploys
his tentacles slowly
20% of prostate ablations are performed in the Congo in France against 80%
in the USA
so this is a technique it is developing apparently slowly then
it is a pickaxe a real success in April-May laurent the nerve of the war
it's money
among the interventions like the one we just saw in the report
ablation of prostate robots
it costs about one thousand two hundred thousand 500 jobs with surgery
classic is three times cheaper so the robot is expensive
when you buy it is expensive to maintain and use it is
which brakes a lot of health facilities and to equip important thing
this is not the patient who bear the extra cost of this technology with
nicolas too
for us it does not change anything that is the classic method to the small
the street you will play for the occasion in total with this robot of the poles
sometimes very hard Tuesday
I present to you my first patient would be appealed
that's then
laurent equip yourself
parents of pupils
It is totally true
the parents of the woman then on the head quite arsenal the stamp of
the bruch
know that in France there is only a university degree in surgery
robotics is in Nancy
otherwise you had to go to the clinics in the hospitals that's what
we did in the clinic in Harare
make it abroad
you will understand why
doctor erard today I'm losing my first answer what do I
start by doing
he first of all you have hoof appointments
you are bad at refusing to become one with the machine must know that
it was the manipulators and
the continuation duchesneau comes in the second inning go approached you
were in the console to see in three dimensions
and thirdly you put your hands in each case is unique
to be able to control
the instruments you have the opportunity offered to make some
movements
you could not do
on the other hand open roger for example
first because you are limited and sometimes your shoulder by
your wrist
the surgeons the new consoles
with sponges with pacifiers with small specimens
on the sly
simply to
the regulars
to manipulation
messi especially gathered the tip of china
conducted in the first 24 centers in France
currently we are formatting after four air shows
mans all over France
all
four to six weeks
that's when I'm not hiding from you that the convalescence after a little long
for my team
in reverse of the other shows the report